Fully interactive or asynchronous?

Asynchronous gives us the mystery of interacting with another consciousness only through artifacts, plus eliminates realtime jitters as a cue to consciousness.

So what is the co-op goal?
Ideas:

--Find each other (settle on one space to be in together).
--Build something together.
--Solve some kind of puzzle together.


Multiple levels of reality.

--In the "real" level, you see what you and your partner are actually doing---actual, lasting effects on the environment.

--In the false levels, you can make changes yourself, and those are lasting, but you only see echos of what your partner has done in the real level.  I.e., you can't see what they are actually building in their false levels.  In fact, their false levels are separate, and may even look different, from yours.

Challenge becomes two-fold:

1)  Figure out which level is the "real" one.

2)  Accomplish something together in that level.


But after you figure out which one is real, you don't need to visit the false realities anymore, do you?  That seems to be undesireable.  Seems like you would want to keep dipping down into non-realities even after you found the real one.

What if the non-realities added some kind of clarity that wasn't present in reality?  Like the echos of structures from reality are value-added?

One idea is that each player sees the abstract shapes that they lay labeled with clear, understandable symbols (example:  letters of the roman alphabet), but they are "translated" into unclear symbols (geometric shapes) when displayed in the partner's reality.  However, echos of these seen structures are translated properly in the false realities...  that's one example, but it's not satisfying.

Okay, but what are they trying to accomplish in the real space?


What about tweaking parameters on some kind of kaleidescopic projectors?  Or
some other task of making something beautiful.  Along with containing echos
of what has been seen in the real level, the false levels could have randomized
new versions of these...

What about composing slide-shows from databases of internet images?  No, too tacky.


Dip down into non-real levels to "work on things", assemble them, and bring them back up to the surface.  There's raw material down there, material from your own consciousness that doesn't exist in the real space yet.

Of course, interface and general structure of all levels has to be identical (so as not to give away which one is real).

Want the task to be as smooth and non-tedious as possible.  Nothing that involves repetition and work.


Point:  other consciounsess creates "novelty" only in real level.  Everything
created in non-real levels can eventually be recognized as derivative.

So goal becomes to create as much notvelty as possible in real level to let
your partner know that it is in fact the real level.

But what are they working on?

--Tile laying (mosaic--- top-down?  no avitar?)
--Block stacking (building castles or whatever---- but climbing is tedius)
--Building some kind of kinetic sculpture?  But what?
--Planting flowers, gardening?
--Menagerie of animals?


Seems like most of the building tasks are limited by the interface:  i.e., can't really build something intricate without it becoming tedious.

Other idea:  genetic mashup of two objects?  Seems too limited, and frustrating trying to make a specific object and not being able to.

Top-down mosaic seems like the best, but it doesn't fit in with the mood that I want to foster... a sense of space and place.


One idea that is fixed in my mind:  levels arranged in a static "ring" structure, with no level at the top... you can keep "waking up" forever and going up to the next level, eventually looping back around to the one that you started at.

What about assembling something in a lower level to use in an upper level?  Like laying tiles of various colors in a 3x3 grid to make a 1x1 textured "block" in the level above?  Then you could assemble those in a 3x3 grid there to make an even more detailed block in the level above that.  Since levels are connected in a ring network, you could eventually bring a block that contains a sub-sub-sub-...-sub-block from this level back to this level.

Okay, so constructed blocks can only move up.  (interesting)

Structures move down (echos only).  Real level only sees structures that you and your partner actually build.  Unreal levels see structures echoed from immediately higher level.

Mechanic for building structures (to prevent tedium)?


I'm imagining colored blocks as the atoms, and then building patterned blocks
out of those, and assembling them into these colorful towers.  Pushing for
novelty in the face of entropy.


Three "pills" in each level:
--Sleep (go down level)
--Wake (go up level)
--Join (commit to this being reality)

Similar in look and feel to Immortality.  A bit like a full work that uses
Immortality as a sketch.

Well, actually, aesthetics might be different.  Full openGL?  Different look and feel?  Or still low-fi and pixelated?


What about assembling a piece of music from these structures?  That seems very cool.  Or it could end up sounding annoying most of the time and wrecking the 
somber, lonely mood that I'm trying to convey.





